Figure 2. Iron- and sulfide-oxidizing genetic potential in recovered Chlorobi MAGs compared to reference strains. The left side of the figure shows a maximum-likelihood phylogenetic tree of the Chlorobi based on concatenated ribosomal protein amino acid sequences (see methods). Chlorobi are shaded based on their known or hypothesized metabolic potential. Chlorobi MAGs recovered from this study are bolded. On the right side, a heatmap is shown displaying the presence/absence of genes implicated in iron and sulfur metabolism among Chlorobi based on reciprocal BLAST. Heatmap tiles are shaded based on the percent amino acid identity of an identified gene compared to the reference sequence (Chl. ferrooxidans for iron-related genes, and Chl. phaeoclathratiforme for sulfur-related genes). The cytochrome c5 family protein upstream of cyc2 was not searched for directly due to poor sequence homology, but the gene neighbourhood of cyc2 reciprocal BLAST hits was checked to verify the presence of the c5 family protein.


Figure 3. Bubble plot showing predicted relative abundances of recovered MAGs in the lake and enrichment culture environments. The size of each bubble corresponds to the relative abundance of a MAG or taxon within metagenomic data based on mapping of assembled reads. A, Chlorobi MAGs coloured by their metabolic potential based on functional gene markers described in this study. Bolded names correspond to the higher-quality MAGs described in Table 1, Figure 1, and Figure 2. In parantheses beside each name are MAG quality statistics reported by CheckM -- the predicted % completion, % contamination, and % strain heterogeneity, respectively. The displayed MAGs all classify to the Chlorobium genus based on GTDB taxonomy. B, Non-Chlorobi MAGs (>= 0.01% relative abundance) found to have the same functional gene markers (cyc2 or dsrA) in their genome sequences. Quality statistics are reported as in panel A. On the right side of the panel, the GTDB family and genus classifications of each MAG are shown. C, Family-level taxonomic composition of the metagenomes based on GTDB classifications of assembled MAGs. The phylum of each family is displayed on the right side of the panel. For unresolved or non-latin family names, the order (and class, if needed) is displayed in parentheses beside the family name for clarity. D, Assembly statistics for the metagenomic data. The total number of quality-trimmed metagenomic reads is represented by the total height of each bar. Reads that mapped to the filtered sequence assembly (i.e., excluding contigs < 1000 bp) are highlighted in blue and are considered "assembled" reads. Assembled read read totals were used to determine relative abundances of MAGs in panels A-C. Supplementary Figure S__ shows relative abundances based on predictions from pre-assembled metagenomic reads.

